Editorial pass and consistency updates (#3401)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-secondary-server-certs.md

# Discovering Additional Certificates at the HTTP Layer {#discovery}

A certificate chain with proof of possession of the private key corresponding to
the end-entity certificate is sent as a sequence of `SERVER_CERTIFICATE`
frames (see {{http2-cert}}, {{http3-cert}}) to the client. Once the holder of a
certificate has sent the chain and proof, this certificate chain is cached by
the recipient and available for future use.

## Indicating Support for HTTP-Layer Certificate Authentication {#settings-usage}

The `SETTINGS_HTTP_SERVER_CERT_AUTH` parameters for HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 are
defined in {{settings}} so that clients and servers can indicate support for
secondary certificate authentication of servers.

HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 endpoints that wish to indicate support for HTTP-Layer

> certificate authentication MUST send a `SETTINGS_HTTP_SERVER_CERT_AUTH`

Reviewer: nit: elsewhere you're specifically adding `server` so for consistency do you want it here (and the section title?)

```suggestion
server certificate authentication MUST send a `SETTINGS_HTTP_SERVER_CERT_AUTH`
```

Author: Updated here and the title

parameter set to "1" in their SETTINGS frame. Endpoints MUST NOT use any of the
authentication functionality described in this document unless the parameter

> has been negotiated by both sides.

Reviewer: nit: this sentence is not 100% clear. I assume "negotiated by both sides" means that SETTINGS_HTTP_SERVER_CERT_AUTH with a value of 1 is set by **both**. Maybe that needs to be said explicitly.

Author: Great call, fixed to say both sent and received the setting with a value of 1

NOT send them if the client has not indicated support with
`SETTINGS_HTTP_SERVER_CERT_AUTH`.

A client MUST NOT send certificates to the server. The server MUST close the
connection upon receipt of a SERVER_CERTIFICATE frame from a client.

> ~~~ drawing

Reviewer: nit: we probably want to convert these to aasvg, consider punting that to a different issue

Author: Updated in [41c8638](https://github.com/httpwg/http-extensions/pull/3401/commits/41c8638cfcf0f6973c1f0763c3684acacd1e9b36)!

certificate (OCSP, SCT, etc.). The result is an opaque token which is used
when generating the `SERVER_CERTIFICATE` frame.

> Upon receipt of a `SERVER_CERTIFICATE` frame, an endpoint which has negotiated

Reviewer: nit: the design only allows clients to receive this frame, so consider stating it that way for clarity
```suggestion
Upon receipt of a `SERVER_CERTIFICATE` frame, a client which has negotiated
```

Author: Ack done

support for secondary certificates MUST perform the following steps to validate
the token it contains:

- Using the `get context` API, retrieve the `certificate_request_context` used
  to generate the authenticator, if any. Because the
  `certificate_request_context` for spontaneous server certificates is chosen
  by the server, the usage of the `certificate_request_context` is
  implementation-dependent. For details, see {{Section 5 of EXPORTED-AUTH}}.
- Use the `validate` API to confirm the validity of the authenticator with
  regard to the generated request, if any.

If the authenticator cannot be validated, this SHOULD be treated as a connection

> error of type SERVER_CERTIFICATE_UNREADABLE ({{errors}}).

Reviewer: bikeshed: I'm not a TLS guru, but is the error about reading or validating? Maybe its both? In other similar cases I know, there is a difference between reading and validating.

The error description states "An exported authenticator could not be validated.", the current name seems a little in friction with that IMHO

So we might want to consider two specific errors, or a more catch all name like "SERVER_CERTIFICATE_ERROR" with description "An issue processing the contents of the SERVER_CERTIFICATE frame". Implementations could always provide a reason phrase to expand on that if they really wanted.

Author: Yeah, I can see the possibility for confusion. Updated to say SERVER_CERTIFICATE_INVALID for now with a description of "There was an issue processing the SERVER_CERTIFICATE frame" to cover both parsing and validating.
Can change to a different bikeshed color as needed.
